Basically, you look at your application domain.
A programmer can't just be an expert at programming.
You have to understand what it is,
what the problem is that you have to solve.
So you have to understand the world of your users, of your customers,
and so you listen to how they talk,
and you see what are the concepts they deal with.
So graphical people have shapes and rotations and certain forms of movements,
and you then break that down in the things that you manipulate,
like the shapes, and the operation should build onto those shapes.
Now you get various forms of shape classes or image classes and operations on them.
So it allows your customers to work at
the level they would like to work at using their vocabulary.
What we do is,
we lift the language from the machine up to
the humans to make basically a language that's fit for humans,
and that's a set of classes and
relations between classes and operations on objects of classes,
and things like that.